Thus far in this module,
we had a look at background synchronization where we set up our own synchronization event and that then
gets executed whenever we have connectivity again.
Now I want to move on to another way of background synchronization which isn't implemented in any browser
at the point of time I'm recording this but which will come in the future,
periodic sync.
Now it handles a different problem,
we have our app and we have a server and periodic sync is all about getting data on a regular basis
from the server.
So it's not about sending data
we try to send when we were offline,
it's about getting data and this could be useful if we have some back-end. Imagine Twitter, the Twitter
API where data changes frequently and it would be nice if our application could get updates in the background
so that the next time the user opens our web app, it already has the fresh data, it doesn't need to fetch
it at the point of time we start the app,
that would of course be awesome because it would speed up our web application startup.
Again, it's not supported by browsers yet but it will come in the future and it will work like this.
We will register a periodic sync task with the service worker,
so just like before, we registered sync, it would be periodic sync.
There we also pass a schedule where we basically say, please update every hour or something like that
and then this schedule will trigger the periodic sync event on the service worker to which we can listen
with add event listener based on the schedule.
So this now then makes the service worker reach out to the server and request new data.
This is how it will work in the back and more information about this can be found in the article after
this lecture.
Again just because it's important, you can't use it yet, it's not supported by any browser
but it will come in the future and it of course is a great addition because it makes sure that you
can get data whilst your application is closed.
And just because it's important, it's not related to connectivity issues at all,
it's about fetching data
even if your app is not opened.